chore: release notes for 1.4.1 (replace custom/manual content with JIRA-driven RN content too) (#848)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/release-notes/ref-release-notes-fixed-issues.adoc

This section lists issues fixed in {product} {product-version}.

== Fixed issues in 1.4.1

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-4687"]

> === Updating Channel does not trigger an Operator Update
> 
> Administrators may encounter problems updating {product-short} across channels. As a workaround, to upgrade across channels:
> 
> * Delete the {product-very-short} operator subscription (but not its operands)
> * Create a new subscription pointing to the new channel (`fast` or `fast-1.4`), using the latest CSV
> * Once installed, any existing Backstage objects will be upgraded through the new operator
> 
> Note, your app config may need to be adjusted as part of the rollout, if plugins have changed their name or configuration requirements. See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.4/html-single/release_notes/index#feature-rhidp-4853[Plugins with updated scope]. 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Updating Channel does not trigger an Operator update

Administrators may encounter problems updating {product-short} across channels. As a workaround, to upgrade across channels:

* Delete the {product-very-short} Operator subscription. Do not delete the operands.
* Create a new subscription pointing to the new channel (`fast` or `fast-1.4`), using the latest CSV.
* When you install the new operator, the existing Backstage objects will be upgraded.

[NOTE]
If plugin names or configuration requirements have been changed, you may need to update your application configuration. See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.4/html-single/release_notes/index#feature-rhidp-4853[Plugins with updated scope].
```
I realize that this content is taken directly from the associated Jira, so I've edited the Jira RN Text to mirror this suggestion .

.Additional resources
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-4687[RHIDP-4687]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-5308"]
=== notification backend and catalog backend gitlab org failing to load with MODULE_NOT_FOUND

> In the previous version of {product-short}, the gitlab org catalog backend plugin and notification backend plugin would fail to load when configured with a `MODULE_NOT_FOUND` error.  This has been fixed by embedding the  missing dependencies in the dynamic plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous version of {product-short}, the GitLab Org catalog backend plugin (`plugin-catalog-backend-module-gitlab-org`)and the Notification backend plugin (`plugin-notifications-backend`) fail to load when configured with a `MODULE_NOT_FOUND` error.  This has been fixed by embedding the  missing dependencies in the dynamic plugins.

```
This suggestion has also been  updated in the Jira RN Text field.

Author: you must not have saved the change. I've re-applied it in https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-5308

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-2727"]
=== GitHub issues plugin supports multiple GitHub integration hosts

Previously, the GitHub issues plugin defaulted to using the first GitHub integration it detected for all components. This behavior made it incompatible with setups involving multiple GitHub integration hosts.

Now, GitHub issues plugin supports multiple GitHub integration hosts. It uses the well-known entity slug annotation `backstage.io/source-location` or `backstage.io/managed-by-location` to determine the appropriate GitHub integration for a component. If no integration matches the slug, the first GitHub integration is selected, maintaining the previous behavior.

.Additional resources
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-2727[RHIDP-2727]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-2903"]
=== All API documentation is defined in the 3scale backend plugin

Previously, some API documentation defined in the 3scale backend plugin was not accessible in {product-very-short}.

With this update, all API documentation defined in the 3scale backend plugin is imported and merged in the {product-very-short}.

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```
A blank line is required to correctly format the "Additional resources" heading.

Author: you do realize this is generated by the pythong script, so manually suggesting the same change a dozen times is ... not required.

Reviewer 2: I'm not familiar with that particular Python script but yes I partly guessed that after the first half dozen occurrences 🙂

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-2903[RHIDP-2903]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-3115"]
=== {product-very-short} helm chart deployment throws `NotAllowedError`

Previously, when deploying with the Helm Chart, there could be a mismatch between the Route hostname and the `baseUrl` fields added to the generated app-config ConfigMap. This could sometimes cause failure to authenticate against some providers due to an origin mismatch.

This update fixes this issue by ensuring no mismatch between those values.

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-3115[RHIDP-3115]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-3849"]
=== Disable the creation of permission policies and roles when disabling the RBAC backend plugin

Previously, disabling the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) backend plugin created roles and permission policies, whether the permission framework was enabled or not.

With this update, disabling the RBAC backend plugin no longer creates roles and permission policies.

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```

With this update, an alert on the deletion icon notifies the user to modify the source (either the `catalog-info` within the repository or the `app-config.yaml` file if the file originates from there) to remove the catalog entity.

.Additional resources
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-3931[RHIDP-3931]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-4240"]
=== Removed the pre-configured custom resources from the Kubernetes configuration

Before this update, the custom resources in Kubernetes configuration were pre-configured. As a result, users could see Tekton warnings without configuring the custom resources in Kubernetes.

This update removes the pre-configured custom resources from the Kubernetes configuration. Therefore, users can customize resources to the Kubernetes configuration based on their requirements, preventing unrelated warnings from appearing.

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-4240[RHIDP-4240]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-4241"]
=== RBAC Plugin is broken with latest Backstage version (`1.31`)

Before this update, Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) backend plugin broke in Backstage `1.31` with an error.

This update resolves compatibility issues with RBAC backend plugin on Backstage versions `1.31` and `1.32` without displaying any errors.

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-4241[RHIDP-4241]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-4732"]
=== The backstage instance always failed to start in version `5.1.0`

Before this update, the backstage instance failed to start in version `5.1.0`, showing an error.

With this update, the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) Backend plugin now starts successfully in version `5.1.0` without displaying any errors.

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-4732[RHIDP-4732]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-4734"]
=== Resolved RBAC API inconsistency when scaling deployments to more than one pod

Before this update, scaling the deployment to more than one pod caused Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) roles to remain unsynced, allowing only the pod that created the resource to serve it.

With this update, RBAC roles are now properly synced across all pods, with Redis cache and traffic routing configured to ensure consistency across the deployment.
.Additional resources
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-4734[RHIDP-4734]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-5014"]
=== `export-dynamic-plugin` fails to find dependencies nested deeper than one level in `node_modules`

> Previously, the CLI examined the dependencies of embedded packages during the export process to know if other packages should be embedded. One of the methods was calling {{require}} when the CLI encountered a built embedded package, which was the case when wrapping an existing plugin. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, the CLI examined the dependencies of embedded packages during the export process to know if other packages should be embedded. One of the methods was calling `require` when the CLI encountered a built embedded package, which was the case when wrapping an existing plugin. 

```

> This update changes the parent directory that the {{require}} uses from the monorepo root to the embedded package. Therefore, the dependent package found is the dependency that is most relevant to the embedded package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This update changes the parent directory that the `require` uses from the monorepo root to the embedded package. Therefore, the dependent package found is the dependency that is most relevant to the embedded package.
```

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-5014[RHIDP-5014]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-5062"]
=== `suppress-native-package` and `allow-native-package` flags to handle native modules

Previously, the CLI failed with a message that native modules are not supported.  

This update introduces two new CLI flags that help dynamic plugin developers handle native modules. Both flags accept a list of packages. The `--suppress-native-package` flag does not require the native module at runtime. It replaces the native module with an empty package that displays an error. The `--allow-native-package` flag instructs the CLI to allow the native package during checks, and tests a plugin that uses a native module.

.Additional resources
* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-5062[RHIDP-5062]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-5120"]
===  Resolved the issue with text selection when reporting a TechDoc issue

Previously, the feature to report a documentation (TechDoc) issue failed. Therefore, when a user selected a text in a TechDoc, a large icon appeared instead of a tooltip button.

With this update, users can select texts when reporting a documentation (TechDoc) issue.

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-5120[RHIDP-5120]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-5136"]
=== Resolved the `stdout maxBuffer` error

Previously, the `export-dynamic-plugin` failed with an error that the `stdout maxBuffer` length was exceeded.

> With this update, the CLI redirects the output of the {{yarn install}} command it performs during the export process to a file. Therefore, a successful completion of the {{yarn install}} command and verification of the `export-dynamic-plugin`, cleans up the file. The file is available for troubleshooting when the dynamic plugin validation checks fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, the CLI redirects the output of the `yarn install` command it performs during the export process to a file. Therefore, a successful completion of the `yarn install` command and verification of the `export-dynamic-plugin`, cleans up the file. The file is available for troubleshooting when the dynamic plugin validation checks fail.
```

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-5136[RHIDP-5136]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-5141"]
=== Added an `--ignore-version-check` flag

Previously, exporting a plugin that has not been updated to a newer backstage version failed due to a semver check performed on dependencies of the dynamic plugin package.

With this update, an `--ignore-version-check` flag accepts a list of package names causing the CLI to selectively ignore the semver check the CLI performs when evaluating the plugin package dependencies. Therefore, a plugin that has not been updated works because it relies on unchanged interfaces and functions. 

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```

* link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHIDP-5141[RHIDP-5141]

[id="bug-fix-rhidp-5297"]
=== Updated the Tech Radar plugin

With this update, you are now required to enable both `./dynamic-plugins/dist/backstage-community-tech-radar` and `./dynamic-plugins/dist/backstage-community-tech-radar-backend-dynamic` to use the Tech Radar plugin. You must configure additional settings depending on where you choose to load the JSON data for the plugin.

> .Additional resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Additional resources
```
